Blazing Fast SetFit Inference with 🤗 Optimum Intel on Xeon (#1814)
huggingface/blog: setfit-optimum-intel.md

Compared to LLM based methods, SetFit has two unique advantages:

<p>🗣 <strong>No prompts or verbalisers</strong>: few-shot in-context learning with LLMs requires handcrafted prompts which make the results brittle, sensitive to phrasing and dependent on user expertise. SetFit dispenses with prompts altogether by generating rich embeddings directly from a small number of labeled text examples.</p>

<p>🏎 <strong>Fast to train</strong>: SetFit doesn't require large-scale models like T0 or GPT-3 to achieve high accuracy. As a result, it is typically an order of magnitude (or more) faster to train and run inference with.</p>

For more details on SetFit, check out our [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.11055), [blog](https://huggingface.co/blog/setfit), [code](https://github.com/huggingface/setfit), and [data](https://huggingface.co/SetFit).

Setfit has been widely adopted by the AI developer community, with ~100k downloads per month and [~1500](https://huggingface.co/models?library=setfit) SetFit models on the Hub, and growing with an average of ~4 models per day!

## Faster!

> In this blog post, we'll explain how you can accelerate inference with SetFit even further on Intel CPUs, by optimizing your SetFit model with 🤗 [Optimum Intel](https://github.com/huggingface/optimum). We’ll show how you can achieve huge throughput gains by performing a simple quantization step on your model, no training required. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog post, we'll explain how you can accelerate inference with SetFit even further on Intel CPUs, by optimizing your SetFit model with 🤗 [Optimum Intel](https://github.com/huggingface/optimum). We’ll show how you can achieve huge throughput gains by performing a simple post-training quantization step on your model.
```

quantizer.quantize(
    quantization_config=quantization_config,
    calibration_dataset=calibration_set,
    save_directory=optimum_model_path,
    batch_size=1,
)
tokenizer.save_pretrained(optimum_model_path)
```

That’s it! We now have a local copy of our quantized SetFit model. Let’s test it out.

## Step 2: Benchmark Inference

In our [notebook](https://github.com/huggingface/setfit/blob/main/notebooks/setfit-optimum-intel.ipynb), we’ve set up a `PerformanceBenchmark` class to compute model latency and throughput, as well as an accuracy measure. Let’s use it to benchmark the original model (with PyTorch backend) and our newly optimized model.

Load our test dataset, `sst2`, and run the benchmark on the original model:

```python
from datasets import load_dataset
from setfit import SetFitModel

test_dataset = load_dataset("SetFit/sst2")["validation"]

model_path = "dkorat/bge-small-en-v1.5_setfit-sst2-english"
setfit_model = SetFitModel.from_pretrained(model_path)
pb = PerformanceBenchmark(
    setfit_model,
    test_dataset,
    "bge-small (PyTorch)"
)
perf_metrics = pb.run_benchmark()
```

> First, we’ll need to define a wrapper around our SetFit model which plugs in our quantized model at inference (instead of the original model body). Then, we can run the benchmark using this wrapper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's run the benchmark on on our optimized model. We’ll first need to define a wrapper around our SetFit model which plugs in our quantized model body at inference (instead of the original model body). Then, we can run the benchmark using this wrapper.
```

```python
import optimum.intel

class OptimumSetFitModel:
   def __init__(self, setfit_model, model_body):
       model_body.tokenizer = setfit_model.model_body.tokenizer
       self.model_body = model_body
       self.model_head = setfit_model.model_head

optimum_model = optimum.intel.IPEXModel.from_pretrained(optimum_model_path)
optimum_setfit_model = OptimumSetFitModel(setfit_model, model_body=optimum_model)

pb = PerformanceBenchmark(
   optimum_setfit_model,
   test_dataset,
   f"bge-small (optimum intel)",
   model_path=optimum_model_path,
   enable_autocast=True,
)
perf_metrics.update(pb.run_benchmark())
```

## Results
<p align="center">
    <img src="assets/176_setfit_optimum_intel/latency.png" width=500>
</p>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p align="center">
    <em>Accuracy vs latency at batch size=1</em>
</p>

```

|                      | bge-small (PyTorch) | bge-small (optimum intel) |
|----------------------|---------------------|---------------------------|
| Model Size           | 127.32 MB           | 44.65 MB                  |
| Accuracy on test set | 88.4%               | 88.1%                     |

When inspecting the performance at batch size 1, there’s a **3.68x reduction in latency** with our optimized model. Note that this is achieved with virtually no drop in accuracy! 

> Also worth noting, the model size has shrunk by 2.85x. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's also worth to mention that the model size has shrunk by 2.85x. 
```

Author: Maybe `It's also worth mentioning that the model size has shrunk by 2.85x.`?

Reviewer: yeah was considering that :)

Reviewer: updated my code suggestion

<p align="center">
    <img src="assets/176_setfit_optimum_intel/throughput.png" width=500>
</p>

> We move on to our main focus, which is the reported throughput at different batch sizes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We move on to our main focus, which is the reported throughputs with different batch sizes.
```

Here, the optimization has garnered even greater speedups. When comparing the highest achievable throughput (at any batch size), the optimized model is **6.91x faster than before!**

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Summary

In this blog post, we have learned how to use quantization capabilities present in 🤗 Optimum Intel to optimize SetFit models. After running a quick and easy post-training quantization procedure, we've observed that accuracy  level was preserved, while inference throughput increases by nearly 7x. This optimization method can be readily integrated into existing SetFit deployments to accelerate productivity.

```

Author: Not a big fan of "accelerate productivity". Also, there's a double space in the middle somewhere.

Reviewer: Updated code suggestion above

## Step 2: Benchmark Inference

In our [notebook](https://github.com/huggingface/setfit/blob/main/notebooks/setfit-optimum-intel.ipynb), we’ve set up a `PerformanceBenchmark` class to compute model latency and throughput, as well as an accuracy measure. Let’s use it to benchmark the original model which uses the standard 🤗 Transformers backend, and our newly optimized model, which is quantized and run using 🤗 Optimum Intel.

Load our test dataset, `sst2`, and run the benchmark on the original model:

```python
from datasets import load_dataset
from setfit import SetFitModel
test_dataset = load_dataset("SetFit/sst2")["validation"]

model_path = "dkorat/bge-small-en-v1.5_setfit-sst2-english"
setfit_model = SetFitModel.from_pretrained(model_path)
pb = PerformanceBenchmark(
    setfit_model,
    test_dataset,
    "bge-small (transformers)"
)
perf_metrics = pb.run_benchmark()
```

Now let's run the benchmark on on our optimized model. We’ll first need to define a wrapper around our SetFit model which plugs in our quantized model body at inference (instead of the original model body). Then, we can run the benchmark using this wrapper.

```python

> import optimum.intel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import optimum.intel

```

class OptimumSetFitModel:
   def __init__(self, setfit_model, model_body):
       model_body.tokenizer = setfit_model.model_body.tokenizer
       self.model_body = model_body
       self.model_head = setfit_model.model_head

optimum_model = optimum.intel.IPEXModel.from_pretrained(optimum_model_path)
optimum_setfit_model = OptimumSetFitModel(setfit_model, model_body=optimum_model)

pb = PerformanceBenchmark(
   optimum_setfit_model,
   test_dataset,
   f"bge-small (optimum intel)",
   model_path=optimum_model_path,
   enable_autocast=True,
)
perf_metrics.update(pb.run_benchmark())
```

## Results
<p align="center">
    <img src="assets/176_setfit_optimum_intel/latency.png" width=500>
</p>
<p align="center">
    <em>Accuracy vs latency at batch size=1</em>
</p>

|                      | bge-small (transformers) | bge-small (optimum intel) |
|----------------------|---------------------|---------------------------|
| Model Size           | 127.32 MB           | 44.65 MB                  |
| Accuracy on test set | 88.4%               | 88.1%                     |

> | Latency (bs=1) | 26.90 ms +/- 5.72 ms | 5.29 ms +/- 0.76 ms |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Latency (bs=1) | 19.50 ms +/- 0.80 ms | 5.06 ms +/- 0.43 ms |
```

> When inspecting the performance at batch size 1, there’s a **5.1x reduction in latency** with our optimized model. Note that this is achieved with virtually no drop in accuracy! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When inspecting the performance at batch size 1, there’s a **3.85x reduction in latency** with our optimized model. Note that this is achieved with virtually no drop in accuracy! 
```

It's also worth mentioning that the model size has shrunk by 2.85x. 

<p align="center">
    <img src="assets/176_setfit_optimum_intel/throughput.png" width=500>
</p>

We move on to our main focus, which is the reported throughputs with different batch sizes.

> Here, the optimization has garnered even greater speedups. When comparing the highest achievable throughput (at any batch size), the optimized model is **6.91x faster than before!**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, the optimization has garnered even greater speedups. When comparing the highest achievable throughput (at any batch size), the optimized model is **7.01x faster than before!**
```

Setfit has been widely adopted by the AI developer community, with ~100k downloads per month and [~1500](https://huggingface.co/models?library=setfit) SetFit models on the Hub, and growing with an average of ~4 models per day!

## Faster!

In this blog post, we'll explain how you can accelerate inference with SetFit even further on Intel CPUs, by optimizing your SetFit model with 🤗 [Optimum Intel](https://github.com/huggingface/optimum). We’ll show how you can achieve huge throughput gains by performing a simple post-training quantization step on your model.
This can enable production-grade deployment of SetFit solutions using Intel Xeon CPUs. Our blog is accompanied by a [notebook](https://github.com/huggingface/setfit/blob/main/notebooks/setfit-optimum-intel.ipynb) for a step-by-step walkthrough.

## Step 1: Quantize the SetFit Model using 🤗 Optimum Intel

In order to optimize our SetFit model, we will apply quantization to the model body, using [Intel Neural Compressor](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/oneapi/neural-compressor.html) (INC), part of Optimum Intel.

> **Quantization** is a very popular deep learning model optimization technique for improving inference speeds. It minimizes the number of bits required to represent the weights and/or activations in a neural network. This is done by converting a set of real-valued numbers into their lower-bit data representations, such as INT8. Moreover, quantization can enable faster computations in lower precision.

Reviewer 2: here we go from fp32 to int8 so would replace it with :
```suggestion
**Quantization** is a very popular deep learning model optimization technique for improving inference speeds. It minimizes the number of bits required to represent the weights and/or activations in a neural network. This is done by converting a set of high-precision  numbers into a lower-bit data representations, such as INT8. Moreover, quantization can enable faster computations in lower precision.
```

Specifically, we'll apply post-training static quantization (PTQ). PTQ can reduce the memory footprint and latency for inference, while still preserving the accuracy of the model, with only a small unlabeled calibration set and without any training.

> 

Reviewer 2: would add this to ensure users have the latest version of `optimum-intel` 

````suggestion
Before you begin, make sure you have all the necessary libraries installed and that your version of Optimum Intel is at least `1.14.0` since the functionality was introduced in that version:

```bash
pip install --upgrade-strategy eager optimum[ipex]
```

````

### Prepare a Calibration Dataset

> The calibration dataset should be able to represent the data distribution of unseen data. In general, preparing 100 samples is enough for calibration. We'll use the `rotten_tomatoes` dataset in our case, since it’s composed of movie reviews, like our target dataset, `sst2`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The calibration dataset should be able to represent the distribution of unseen data. In general, preparing 100 samples is enough for calibration. We'll use the `rotten_tomatoes` dataset in our case, since it’s composed of movie reviews, similar to our target dataset, `sst2`.
```

## Step 2: Benchmark Inference

In our [notebook](https://github.com/huggingface/setfit/blob/main/notebooks/setfit-optimum-intel.ipynb), we’ve set up a `PerformanceBenchmark` class to compute model latency and throughput, as well as an accuracy measure. Let’s use it to benchmark the original model which uses the standard 🤗 Transformers backend, and our newly optimized model, which is quantized and run using 🤗 Optimum Intel.

Load our test dataset, `sst2`, and run the benchmark on the original model:

```python
from datasets import load_dataset
from setfit import SetFitModel
test_dataset = load_dataset("SetFit/sst2")["validation"]

model_path = "dkorat/bge-small-en-v1.5_setfit-sst2-english"
setfit_model = SetFitModel.from_pretrained(model_path)
pb = PerformanceBenchmark(
    setfit_model,
    test_dataset,
    "bge-small (transformers)"
)
perf_metrics = pb.run_benchmark()
```

Now let's run the benchmark on on our optimized model. We’ll first need to define a wrapper around our SetFit model which plugs in our quantized model body at inference (instead of the original model body). Then, we can run the benchmark using this wrapper.

```python

> import optimum.intel
> 
> class OptimumSetFitModel:
>    def __init__(self, setfit_model, model_body):
>        model_body.tokenizer = setfit_model.model_body.tokenizer
>        self.model_body = model_body
>        self.model_head = setfit_model.model_head
> 
> 
> optimum_model = optimum.intel.IPEXModel.from_pretrained(optimum_model_path)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from optimum.intel import IPEXModel

class OptimumSetFitModel:
   def __init__(self, setfit_model, model_body):
       model_body.tokenizer = setfit_model.model_body.tokenizer
       self.model_body = model_body
       self.model_head = setfit_model.model_head

optimum_model = IPEXModel.from_pretrained(optimum_model_path)
```

optimum_setfit_model = OptimumSetFitModel(setfit_model, model_body=optimum_model)

pb = PerformanceBenchmark(
   optimum_setfit_model,
   test_dataset,
   f"bge-small (optimum intel)",
   model_path=optimum_model_path,
   enable_autocast=True,
)
perf_metrics.update(pb.run_benchmark())
```

## Results
<p align="center">
    <img src="assets/176_setfit_optimum_intel/latency.png" width=500>
</p>
<p align="center">
    <em>Accuracy vs latency at batch size=1</em>
</p>

|                      | bge-small (transformers) | bge-small (optimum intel) |
|----------------------|---------------------|---------------------------|
| Model Size           | 127.32 MB           | 44.65 MB                  |
| Accuracy on test set | 88.4%               | 88.1%                     |
| Latency (bs=1) | 19.50 ms +/- 0.80 ms | 5.06 ms +/- 0.43 ms |

When inspecting the performance at batch size 1, there’s a **3.85x reduction in latency** with our optimized model. Note that this is achieved with virtually no drop in accuracy! 

> It's also worth mentioning that the model size has shrunk by 2.85x. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's also worth mentioning that the model size has shrunk by **2.85x**. 
```

<p align="center">
    <img src="assets/176_setfit_optimum_intel/throughput.png" width=500>
</p>

We move on to our main focus, which is the reported throughputs with different batch sizes.
Here, the optimization has garnered even greater speedups. When comparing the highest achievable throughput (at any batch size), the optimized model is **7.01x faster than before!**

## Summary

> In this blog post, we have learned how to use quantization capabilities present in 🤗 Optimum Intel to optimize SetFit models. After running a quick and easy post-training quantization procedure, we've observed that accuracy level was preserved, while inference throughput increased by nearly 7x. This optimization method can be readily applied to any existing SetFit deployment running on Intel Xeon.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this blog post, we have showed how to use quantization capabilities present in 🤗 Optimum Intel to optimize SetFit models. After running a quick and easy post-training quantization procedure, we've observed that accuracy level was preserved, while inference throughput increased by nearly 7x. This optimization method can be readily applied to any existing SetFit deployment running on Intel Xeon.
```

---

> title: "Blazing Fast SetFit Inference on Intel Xeon"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "Blazing Fast SetFit Inference with 🤗 Optimum Intel on Xeon"
```

thumbnail: /blog/assets/optimum_intel/intel_thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: dkorat
  guest: true
- user: tomaarsen
- user: orenpereg
  guest: true
- user: moshew
  guest: true
- user: echarlaix
---

# Blazing Fast SetFit Inference with 🤗 Optimum Intel on Xeon

> SetFit is a promising solution for a common modeling problem: how to deal with data that has few to no labels. Developed with Hugging Face’s research partners at [Intel Labs](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/research/overview.html) and the [UKP Lab](https://www.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de/ukp/ukp_home/index.en.jsp), SetFit is an efficient framework for few-shot fine-tuning of [Sentence Transformers](https://sbert.net/) models. 

Reviewer 3: how to deal with data that has few to no labels
```suggestion
how to deal with lack of labeled data
```

> SetFit is a promising solution for a common modeling problem: how to deal with data that has few to no labels. Developed with Hugging Face’s research partners at [Intel Labs](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/research/overview.html) and the [UKP Lab](https://www.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de/ukp/ukp_home/index.en.jsp), SetFit is an efficient framework for few-shot fine-tuning of [Sentence Transformers](https://sbert.net/) models. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
SetFit is a promising solution for a common modeling problem: how to deal with lack of labeled data for training. Developed with Hugging Face’s research partners at [Intel Labs](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/research/overview.html) and the [UKP Lab](https://www.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de/ukp/ukp_home/index.en.jsp), SetFit is an efficient framework for few-shot fine-tuning of [Sentence Transformers](https://sbert.net/) models. 
```

Reviewer: @tomaarsen pls commit

> SetFit achieves high accuracy with little labeled data - for example, with only 8 labeled examples per class on the Customer Reviews (CR) sentiment dataset, SetFit is competitive with fine-tuning RoBERTa Large on the full training set of 3k examples 🤯!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SetFit achieves high accuracy with little labeled data - for example, SetFit [outperforms](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2311.06102.pdf) GPT-3.5 in 3-shot prompting and with 5 shot it also outperforms 3-shot GPT-4 on the Banking 77 financial intent dataset.
```

Compared to LLM based methods, SetFit has two unique advantages:

<p>🗣 <strong>No prompts or verbalisers</strong>: few-shot in-context learning with LLMs requires handcrafted prompts which make the results brittle, sensitive to phrasing and dependent on user expertise. SetFit dispenses with prompts altogether by generating rich embeddings directly from a small number of labeled text examples.</p>

> <p>🏎 <strong>Fast to train</strong>: SetFit doesn't require large-scale models like T0 or GPT-3 to achieve high accuracy. As a result, it is typically an order of magnitude (or more) faster to train and run inference with.</p>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<p>🏎 <strong>Fast to train</strong>: SetFit doesn't rely on LLMs GPT3.5 or Llama2 to achieve high accuracy. As a result, it is typically an order of magnitude (or more) faster to train and run inference with.</p>
```

Reviewer: nit

```suggestion
<p>🏎 <strong>Fast to train</strong>: SetFit doesn't rely on LLMs such as GPT-3.5 or Llama2 to achieve high accuracy. As a result, it is typically an order of magnitude (or more) faster to train and run inference with.</p>
```

Reviewer: @tomaarsen pls commit

   return tokenizer(examples["text"], padding="max_length", max_length=512, truncation=True)
 
tokenizer = setfit_model.model_body.tokenizer
calibration_set = calibration_set.map(tokenize, remove_columns=["text", "label"])
```

### Run Quantization

Before we run quantization, we need to define the desired quantization process - in our case - **Static Post Training Quantization**, and use `optimum.intel` to run the quantization on our calibration dataset:

```python
from optimum.intel import INCQuantizer
from neural_compressor.config import PostTrainingQuantConfig

setfit_body = setfit_model.model_body[0].auto_model
quantizer = INCQuantizer.from_pretrained(setfit_body)
optimum_model_path = "/tmp/bge-small-en-v1.5_setfit-sst2-english_opt"
quantization_config = PostTrainingQuantConfig(approach="static", backend="ipex", domain="nlp")

quantizer.quantize(
    quantization_config=quantization_config,
    calibration_dataset=calibration_set,
    save_directory=optimum_model_path,
    batch_size=1,
)
tokenizer.save_pretrained(optimum_model_path)
```

That’s it! We now have a local copy of our quantized SetFit model. Let’s test it out.

## Step 2: Benchmark Inference

> In our [notebook](https://github.com/huggingface/setfit/blob/main/notebooks/setfit-optimum-intel.ipynb), we’ve set up a `PerformanceBenchmark` class to compute model latency and throughput, as well as an accuracy measure. Let’s use it to benchmark the original model (with PyTorch backend) and our newly optimized model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our [notebook](https://github.com/huggingface/setfit/blob/main/notebooks/setfit-optimum-intel.ipynb), we’ve set up a `PerformanceBenchmark` class to compute model latency and throughput, as well as an accuracy measure. Let’s use it to benchmark the original model which uses the standard `transformers` backend, and our newly optimized model, executed with `Optimum Intel`.
```

Author: How about:
> and our newly optimized model using 🤗 Optimum Intel.

I think 'executed' is a bit odd.

Reviewer: I see. I want to emphasize that the inference backend uses optimum intel too, not just the quantization.
How about this correction above?

Reviewer: @orenpereg WDYT?

Load our test dataset, `sst2`, and run the benchmark on the original model:

```python
from datasets import load_dataset
from setfit import SetFitModel

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

test_dataset = load_dataset("SetFit/sst2")["validation"]

model_path = "dkorat/bge-small-en-v1.5_setfit-sst2-english"
setfit_model = SetFitModel.from_pretrained(model_path)
pb = PerformanceBenchmark(
    setfit_model,
    test_dataset,

>     "bge-small (PyTorch)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "bge-small (transformers)"
```

)
perf_metrics = pb.run_benchmark()
```

Now let's run the benchmark on on our optimized model. We’ll first need to define a wrapper around our SetFit model which plugs in our quantized model body at inference (instead of the original model body). Then, we can run the benchmark using this wrapper.

```python
import optimum.intel

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

class OptimumSetFitModel:
   def __init__(self, setfit_model, model_body):
       model_body.tokenizer = setfit_model.model_body.tokenizer
       self.model_body = model_body
       self.model_head = setfit_model.model_head

optimum_model = optimum.intel.IPEXModel.from_pretrained(optimum_model_path)
optimum_setfit_model = OptimumSetFitModel(setfit_model, model_body=optimum_model)

pb = PerformanceBenchmark(
   optimum_setfit_model,
   test_dataset,
   f"bge-small (optimum intel)",
   model_path=optimum_model_path,
   enable_autocast=True,
)
perf_metrics.update(pb.run_benchmark())
```

## Results
<p align="center">
    <img src="assets/176_setfit_optimum_intel/latency.png" width=500>
</p>
<p align="center">
    <em>Accuracy vs latency at batch size=1</em>
</p>

> |                      | bge-small (PyTorch) | bge-small (optimum intel) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|                      | bge-small (transformers) | bge-small (optimum intel) |
```

|----------------------|---------------------|---------------------------|
| Model Size           | 127.32 MB           | 44.65 MB                  |
| Accuracy on test set | 88.4%               | 88.1%                     |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Latency (bs=1) (ms) | 26.90 +/- 5.72 | 5.29 +/- 0.76 |

```

Author: We should probably either put all units in the first column, or all in the "value" columns. So either 
```
| Latency (bs=1) | 26.90 ms +/- 5.72 ms | 5.29 ms +/- 0.76 ms |
```
or 
```
| Model Size (MB)       | 127.32            | 44.65                   |
| Accuracy on test set (%) | 88.4               | 88.1                     |
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Latency (bs=1) | 26.90 ms +/- 5.72 ms | 5.29 ms +/- 0.76 ms |
```

> When inspecting the performance at batch size 1, there’s a **3.68x reduction in latency** with our optimized model. Note that this is achieved with virtually no drop in accuracy! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When inspecting the performance at batch size 1, there’s a **5.1x reduction in latency** with our optimized model. Note that this is achieved with virtually no drop in accuracy! 
```

---
title: "Blazing Fast SetFit Inference with 🤗 Optimum Intel on Xeon"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/optimum_intel/intel_thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: dkorat
  guest: true
- user: tomaarsen
- user: orenpereg
  guest: true
- user: moshew
  guest: true
- user: echarlaix

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- user: aprabh
  guest: true
---
```

Author: Fixed via fa794fa829ec7f459e8bc976ef22f2a3900e76f5

Compared to LLM based methods, SetFit has two unique advantages:

<p>🗣 <strong>No prompts or verbalisers</strong>: few-shot in-context learning with LLMs requires handcrafted prompts which make the results brittle, sensitive to phrasing and dependent on user expertise. SetFit dispenses with prompts altogether by generating rich embeddings directly from a small number of labeled text examples.</p>

<p>🏎 <strong>Fast to train</strong>: SetFit doesn't rely on LLMs such as GPT-3.5 or Llama2 to achieve high accuracy. As a result, it is typically an order of magnitude (or more) faster to train and run inference with.</p>

For more details on SetFit, check out our [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.11055), [blog](https://huggingface.co/blog/setfit), [code](https://github.com/huggingface/setfit), and [data](https://huggingface.co/SetFit).

Setfit has been widely adopted by the AI developer community, with ~100k downloads per month and [~1500](https://huggingface.co/models?library=setfit) SetFit models on the Hub, and growing with an average of ~4 models per day!

## Faster!

> In this blog post, we'll explain how you can accelerate inference with SetFit even further on Intel CPUs, by optimizing your SetFit model with 🤗 [Optimum Intel](https://github.com/huggingface/optimum-intel). We’ll show how you can achieve huge throughput gains by performing a simple post-training quantization step on your model.
> This can enable production-grade deployment of SetFit solutions using Intel Xeon CPUs. Our blog is accompanied by a [notebook](https://github.com/huggingface/setfit/blob/main/notebooks/setfit-optimum-intel.ipynb) for a step-by-step walkthrough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog post, we'll explain how you can accelerate inference with SetFit even further on Intel CPUs, by optimizing your SetFit model with 🤗 [Optimum Intel](https://github.com/huggingface/optimum-intel). We’ll show how you can achieve huge throughput gains by performing a simple post-training quantization step on your model. This can enable production-grade deployment of SetFit solutions using Intel Xeon CPUs. 

[Optimum Intel](https://github.com/huggingface/optimum-intel) is an open-source library that accelerates end-to-end pipelines built with Hugging Face libraries on Intel Hardware. Optimum Intel includes several techniques to accelerate models such as low-bit quantization, model weight pruning, distillation, and an accelerated runtime.

The runtime and optimizations included in [Optimum Intel](https://github.com/huggingface/optimum-intel) take advantage of Intel® Advanced Vector Extensions 512 (Intel® AVX-512), Vector Neural Network Instructions (VNNI) and Intel® Advanced Matrix Extensions (Intel® AMX) on Intel CPUs to accelerate models. Specifically, it has built-in [BFloat16](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bfloat16_floating-point_format) (bf16) and int8 GEMM accelerators in every core to accelerate deep learning training and inference workloads. AMX accelerated inference is introduced in PyTorch 2.0 and [Intel Extension for PyTorch](https://github.com/intel/intel-extension-for-pytorch) (IPEX) in addition to other optimizations for various common operators.

Optimizing pre-trained models can be done easily with Optimum Intel; many simple examples can be found [here](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/main/en/intel/optimization_inc).
Our blog is accompanied by a [notebook](https://github.com/huggingface/setfit/blob/main/notebooks/setfit-optimum-intel.ipynb) for a step-by-step walkthrough.
```

   return tokenizer(examples["text"], padding="max_length", max_length=512, truncation=True)
 
tokenizer = setfit_model.model_body.tokenizer
calibration_set = calibration_set.map(tokenize, remove_columns=["text", "label"])
```

### Run Quantization

Before we run quantization, we need to define the desired quantization process - in our case - **Static Post Training Quantization**, and use `optimum.intel` to run the quantization on our calibration dataset:

```python
from optimum.intel import INCQuantizer
from neural_compressor.config import PostTrainingQuantConfig

setfit_body = setfit_model.model_body[0].auto_model
quantizer = INCQuantizer.from_pretrained(setfit_body)
optimum_model_path = "/tmp/bge-small-en-v1.5_setfit-sst2-english_opt"
quantization_config = PostTrainingQuantConfig(approach="static", backend="ipex", domain="nlp")

quantizer.quantize(
    quantization_config=quantization_config,
    calibration_dataset=calibration_set,
    save_directory=optimum_model_path,
    batch_size=1,
)
tokenizer.save_pretrained(optimum_model_path)
```

That’s it! We now have a local copy of our quantized SetFit model. Let’s test it out.

## Step 2: Benchmark Inference

> In our [notebook](https://github.com/huggingface/setfit/blob/main/notebooks/setfit-optimum-intel.ipynb), we’ve set up a `PerformanceBenchmark` class to compute model latency and throughput, as well as an accuracy measure. Let’s use it to benchmark the original model which uses the standard 🤗 Transformers backend, and our newly optimized model, which is quantized and run using 🤗 Optimum Intel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our [notebook](https://github.com/huggingface/setfit/blob/main/notebooks/setfit-optimum-intel.ipynb), we’ve set up a `PerformanceBenchmark` class to compute model latency and throughput, as well as an accuracy measure. Let’s use it to benchmark our Optimum Intel model with two other commonly used methods:

 - Using PyTorch and 🤗 Transformers library with fp32.
 - Using [Intel Extension for PyTorch](https://github.com/intel/intel-extension-for-pytorch) (IPEX) runtime with bf16 and tracing the model using TorchScript.
```

Load our test dataset, `sst2`, and run the benchmark on the original model:

```python
from datasets import load_dataset
from setfit import SetFitModel
test_dataset = load_dataset("SetFit/sst2")["validation"]

model_path = "dkorat/bge-small-en-v1.5_setfit-sst2-english"
setfit_model = SetFitModel.from_pretrained(model_path)
pb = PerformanceBenchmark(

>     setfit_model,
>     test_dataset,
>     "bge-small (transformers)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    model=setfit_model,
    dataset=test_dataset,
    optim_type="bge-small (transformers)",
```

)
perf_metrics = pb.run_benchmark()
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the second benchmark, we'll use [Intel Extension for PyTorch](https://github.com/intel/intel-extension-for-pytorch) (IPEX) with bf16 precision and TorchScript tracing. 
To use IPEX we simply import the IPEX library and apply `ipex.optimize()` to the target model, which, in our case, is the SetFit (transformer) model body:

```python
dtype = torch.bfloat16
body = ipex.optimize(setfit_model.model_body, dtype=dtype)
```

For TorchScript tracing, we generate a random sequence based on the model's maximum input length, with tokens sampled from the tokenizer's vocabulary:

```python
tokenizer = setfit_model.model_body.tokenizer
d = generate_random_sequences(batch_size=1, length=tokenizer.model_max_length, vocab_size=tokenizer.vocab_size)

body = torch.jit.trace(body, (d,), check_trace=False, strict=False)
setfit_model.model_body = torch.jit.freeze(body)
```

> Now let's run the benchmark on on our optimized model. We’ll first need to define a wrapper around our SetFit model which plugs in our quantized model body at inference (instead of the original model body). Then, we can run the benchmark using this wrapper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's run the benchmark using our quantized Optimum model. We’ll first need to define a wrapper around our SetFit model which plugs in our quantized model body at inference (instead of the original model body). Then, we can run the benchmark using this wrapper.
```

```python
from optimum.intel import IPEXModel

class OptimumSetFitModel:
   def __init__(self, setfit_model, model_body):
       model_body.tokenizer = setfit_model.model_body.tokenizer
       self.model_body = model_body
       self.model_head = setfit_model.model_head

optimum_model = IPEXModel.from_pretrained(optimum_model_path)
optimum_setfit_model = OptimumSetFitModel(setfit_model, model_body=optimum_model)

pb = PerformanceBenchmark(

>    optimum_setfit_model,
>    test_dataset,
>    f"bge-small (optimum intel)",
>    model_path=optimum_model_path,
>    enable_autocast=True,
> )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    model=optimum_setfit_model,
    dataset=test_dataset,
    optim_type=f"bge-small (optimum-int8)",
    model_path=optimum_model_path,
    autocast_dtype=torch.bfloat16,
)
```

perf_metrics.update(pb.run_benchmark())
```

## Results
<p align="center">
    <img src="assets/176_setfit_optimum_intel/latency.png" width=500>
</p>
<p align="center">
    <em>Accuracy vs latency at batch size=1</em>
</p>

|                      | bge-small (transformers) | bge-small (optimum intel) |
|----------------------|---------------------|---------------------------|
| Model Size           | 127.32 MB           | 44.65 MB                  |
| Accuracy on test set | 88.4%               | 88.1%                     |

> | Latency (bs=1) | 19.50 ms +/- 0.80 ms | 5.06 ms +/- 0.43 ms |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Latency (bs=1) | 15.94 ms +/- 0.84 ms | 4.84 ms +/- 0.20 ms |
```

> |                      | bge-small (transformers) | bge-small (optimum intel) |
> |----------------------|---------------------|---------------------------|
> | Model Size           | 127.32 MB           | 44.65 MB                  |
> | Accuracy on test set | 88.4%               | 88.1%                     |
> | Latency (bs=1) | 19.50 ms +/- 0.80 ms | 5.06 ms +/- 0.43 ms |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|                      | bge-small (transformers) | bge-small (ipex-bfloat16) | bge-small (optimum-int8) |
|----------------------|---------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|
| Model Size           | 127.32 MB           | 44.65 MB                  | 63.74 MB                  |
| Accuracy on test set | 88.4%               | 88.4%                     | 88.1%                     |
| Latency (bs=1) | 15.69 +/- 0.57 ms | 5.67 +/- 0.66 ms | 4.55 +/- 0.25 ms |
```

> When inspecting the performance at batch size 1, there’s a **3.85x reduction in latency** with our optimized model. Note that this is achieved with virtually no drop in accuracy! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When inspecting the performance at batch size 1, there’s a **3.29x reduction in latency** with our optimized model. Note that this is achieved with virtually no drop in accuracy! 
```

Reviewer 4: 3.44x reduction in latency for 15.69/4.55

Reviewer: Good catch :)
 I rounded 3.448 to 3.45

It's also worth mentioning that the model size has shrunk by **2.85x**. 

<p align="center">
    <img src="assets/176_setfit_optimum_intel/throughput.png" width=500>
</p>

We move on to our main focus, which is the reported throughputs with different batch sizes.

> Here, the optimization has garnered even greater speedups. When comparing the highest achievable throughput (at any batch size), the optimized model is **7.01x faster than before!**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, the optimization has garnered even greater speedups. When comparing the highest achievable throughput (at any batch size), the optimized model is **7.2x faster than before!**
```

Reviewer 3: maybe change "faster than before!" to "faster than the original fp32 pytorch model!"

Reviewer: Good catch. Changed to "faster than the original transformers fp32 model!" to be consistent.

## Summary

> In this blog post, we have showed how to use quantization capabilities present in 🤗 Optimum Intel to optimize SetFit models. After running a quick and easy post-training quantization procedure, we've observed that accuracy level was preserved, while inference throughput increased by nearly 7x. This optimization method can be readily applied to any existing SetFit deployment running on Intel Xeon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog post, we have showed how to use quantization capabilities present in 🤗 Optimum Intel to optimize SetFit models. After running a quick and easy post-training quantization procedure, we've observed that accuracy level was preserved, while inference throughput increased by **7x**. This optimization method can be readily applied to any existing SetFit deployment running on Intel Xeon.
```
